Document how Node.js should be upgraded (#87450)
elastic/kibana: docs/developer/advanced/upgrading-nodejs.asciidoc

[[upgrading-nodejs]]
== Upgrading Node.js

{kib} requires a specific Node.js version to run.

> When running {kib} from source, the developer needs to have this version installed locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running {kib} from source, you must have this version installed locally.
```

The required version of Node.js is listed in several different files throughout the {kib} source code.

> All of these needs to be updated when upgrading Node.js:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Theses files must be updated when upgrading Node.js:
```

  - {kib-repo}blob/{branch}/.ci/Dockerfile[`.ci/Dockerfile`] - The version is specified in the `NODE_VERSION` constant.
  - {kib-repo}blob/{branch}/.node-version[`.node-version`]
  - {kib-repo}blob/{branch}/.nvmrc[`.nvmrc`]
  - {kib-repo}blob/{branch}/package.json[`package.json`] - The version is specified in the `engines.node` field.

See PR {kib-repo}pull/86593[#86593] for an example of how the Node.js version has been upgraded previously.

> In the `6.8` branch, the `.ci/Dockerfile` file does not exist, so when upgrading Node.js in that branch, just skip that file.

Reviewer: Version numbers should be in regular font.

Author: Fixed 👍

=== Backporting

> The following rules are not set in stone.

Reviewer: Suggest removing these two sentences and starting directly with "Currently version 7.11 and newer..."

Author: There are situations where you want to backport minor upgrades to all release branches, for example if it's the only way to patch a vulnerability. So I didn't want to make the reader think they _always_ had to follow these rules.

Author: ... but if you have a better way to phrase this, I'm all ears 😃

Reviewer: It reads fine, set let's keep as is.

Use best judgement when backporting.

> Currently `7.11` and newer runs Node.js 14 while `7.10` and older runs Node.js 10.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently version `7.11` and newer run Node.js 14, while `7.10` and older run Node.js 10.
```

Hence, upgrades to either Node.js 14 or Node.js 10 shold be done as separate PRs.

==== Node.js patch upgrades

> Normally we want to backport Node.js _patch_ upgrades to all supported release branches that runs the same _major_ Node.js version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, you want to backport Node.js *patch* upgrades to all supported release branches that run the same _major_ Node.js version:
```

  - If upgrading Node.js 14, and the current release is `7.11.1`, the main PR should target `master` and be backported to `7.x` and `7.11`.

>   - If upgrading Node.js 10, the main PR should just target `6.8`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If upgrading Node.js 10, the main PR should target `6.8` only.
```

==== Node.js minor upgrades

> Normally we want to backport Node.js _minor_ upgrades to the next minor {kib} release branch that runs the same _major_ Node.js version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, you want to backport Node.js *minor* upgrades to the next minor {kib} release branch that runs the same *major* Node.js version:
```

  - If upgrading Node.js 14, and the current release is `7.11.1`, the main PR should target `master` and be backported to `7.x`, while leaving the `7.11` branch as-is.

>   - If upgrading Node.js 10, the main PR should just target `6.8`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If upgrading Node.js 10, the main PR should target `6.8` only.
```

=== Upgrading installed Node.js version

> The following guide expects that https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm[nvm] is used to manage locally installed Node.js versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following instructions expect that https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm[nvm] is used to manage locally installed Node.js versions.
```

> Run the following to install the new Node.js version (replace `<version>` with the desired Node.js version):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following to install the new Node.js version. Replace `<version>` with the desired Node.js version:
```

[source,bash]
----
nvm install <version>
----

To get the same global npm modules installed with the new version of Node.js as is currently installed, use the `--reinstall-packages-from` command-line argument (optionally replace `14` with the desired source version):

[source,bash]
----
nvm install <version> --reinstall-packages-from=14
----

> If needed, uninstall the old version of Node.js by running the following (replace `<old-version>` with the full version number of the version that should be uninstalled):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If needed, uninstall the old version of Node.js by running the following. Replace `<old-version>` with the full version number of the version that should be uninstalled:
```

[source,bash]
----
nvm uninstall <old-version>
----

> Optionally, tell nvm to always use the "highest" installed Node.js 14 version (replace `14` if a different major version is desired):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, tell nvm to always use the "highest" installed Node.js 14 version. Replace `14` if a different major version is desired:
```

[[upgrading-nodejs]]
== Upgrading Node.js

{kib} requires a specific Node.js version to run.
When running {kib} from source, you must have this version installed locally.

The required version of Node.js is listed in several different files throughout the {kib} source code.
Theses files must be updated when upgrading Node.js:

  - {kib-repo}blob/{branch}/.ci/Dockerfile[`.ci/Dockerfile`] - The version is specified in the `NODE_VERSION` constant.

>     This is used to pull the relevant image from https://hub.docker.com/_/node[Docker Hub].

Reviewer: There is an extra / between .com and node.
https://hub.docker.com//node[Docker Hub]

Also from "Note that Docker Hub" through "just" is italicized.  I think you might want to use regular font here.

Author: > There is an extra / between .com and node.
> https://hub.docker.com//node[Docker Hub]

Not sure what you mean? The link is written as `https://hub.docker.com/_/node` in the asciidoc file - notice the extra `_` (underscore)

Author: > Also from "Note that Docker Hub" through "just" is italicized. I think you might want to use regular font here.

Addressed in #87976

    Note that Docker Hub can take 24+ hours to be updated with the new images after a new release of Node.js, so if you're upgrading Node.js in Kibana _just_ after the official Node.js release, you have to check if the new images are present on Docker Hub.
    If they are not, and the update is urgent, you can skip this file and update it later once Docker Hub has been updated.
  - {kib-repo}blob/{branch}/.node-version[`.node-version`]
  - {kib-repo}blob/{branch}/.nvmrc[`.nvmrc`]
  - {kib-repo}blob/{branch}/package.json[`package.json`] - The version is specified in the `engines.node` field.

See PR {kib-repo}pull/86593[#86593] for an example of how the Node.js version has been upgraded previously.

In the 6.8 branch, the `.ci/Dockerfile` file does not exist, so when upgrading Node.js in that branch, just skip that file.

=== Backporting

The following rules are not set in stone.
Use best judgement when backporting.

Currently version 7.11 and newer run Node.js 14, while 7.10 and older run Node.js 10.
Hence, upgrades to either Node.js 14 or Node.js 10 shold be done as separate PRs.

==== Node.js patch upgrades

> Typically, you want to backport Node.js *patch* upgrades to all supported release branches that run the same _major_ Node.js version:

Reviewer: major should be in bold instead of italics

Author: Addressed in #87976
